---
title:    Snowdon UTS 50
layout:   post
s3-album: 2022-07-02-snowdon-uts-50
---


While depressed and recovering from a nasty climbing fall back in April[^1], I
impulsively entered an ultra-marathon - the Snowdon UTS 50km. I barely
consider myself a runner, let alone a marathon runner, so I saw this as a good
personal challenge, and a bit of motivation to get back into the outdoors
after my injury. And with the event village and starting line a convenient 15
minute walk from my house, logistical preparation would be reasonably
straightforward.


I managed a couple of longer training runs in the lead up to the day (up to
35km), but simply wasn't able to dedicate the time to training enough that I
would feel confident on the day. So I went into the race feeling a little
apprehensive.  But I managed to finish without too much trouble. On a run like
this, only the elites will actually run the entire way; the vast majority end
up walking the steep bits, and only running on the flat and downhill
sections. Adopting this strategy made things a bit more manageable - it's
mostly a hike, with some running interspersed.


The event catering was amazing - there were three supremely well equipped rest
stops along the route. When I reached the first stop, I immediately realised
that I needn't have brought _any_ of my own food, nor was there any need to be
carrying 2 litres of water.


The best part of the day was in the evening; as the event was so close to my
house, I was in no rush to get home. Instead, I had a great time relaxing in
the sun, drinking beer and eating pizza, chatting to people, and clapping all
of the remaining runners across the finish line.


[^1]: While climbing an easy route outdoors, I grabbed onto what turned out to
      be a big loose block. The block moved, I lost my balance and fell
      backwards.  To add insult to injury, a cam which I had placed just below
      ripped out, so down I went. I hobbled away with little more than a
      dislocated elbow - it could very easily have been much worse, so I am
      counting my blessings.
