=---
title:    Indian Creek
layout:   post
s3-album: 2022-12-06-indian-creek
s3-hide:  true
---


My brother and sister-in-law recently relocated to Salt Lake City. I saw this
as an opportunity to catch up with them and also to visit Indian Creek, a
climbing destination that has always been very high on my list of places to
visit.


After spending a few days hanging out with Andy and Rosie in snowy Salt Lake,
I rented a van and drove south for 5 hours. I didn't know anybody in the area,
and, apart from a couple of posts on a Facebook group, hadn't lined up any
climbing partners, but was incredibly lucky to be welcomed by an amazing group
of people, mostly Americans, but also a couple of great guys from Spain.


<div class="s3-strip" images="1.jpg;2.jpg;3.jpg"> </div>


Indian Creek is _the_ mecca for crack climbing. I had originally envisaged
spending the week ambling up a bunch of classics which were within my
capability, but ended up spending most of the week falling off routes which
were too difficult for me (in other words, having a great time!). I discovered
early on that I'm not particularly good at crack climbing - I need to work on
those ring locks!


<div class="s3-strip" images="4.jpg;5.jpg;6.jpg;7.jpg"> </div>


On the last day of the trip, I was lucky to have Marc take a few photos of me
while I attempted the incredible King Cat (5.11d). It turns out that the
hardest moves are right at the top, so I ended up hanging from the rope
shortly after the pictures were taken!


<div class="s3-strip" images="8.jpg;9.jpg;10.jpg"> </div>


I am definitely hoping that Andy and Rosie stay in Salt Lake for a few more
years, so I have an excuse to visit them, and the Creek, again.
